Okay, so we're gonna walk through, we're
gonna use a project process framework and
it is a little waterfally and
I apologize for that.
But this is the best
framework in which for
me to introduce these tools to you all,
okay?
So we're gonna start with kickoff.
We're gonna talk through situation
analysis, the strategy and
the implementation for project work.
And this can, a lot of these
artifacts are around website work,
but many of them can be
included to product.
I tend to talk about a website
as a product anyway.
So, okay?
All right, before we do any of that,
there should typically be
kind of a pre-kickoff.
How many of you actually run projects?
A few of you sort of, okay.
I wanna just talk through this really
quickly so that hopefully we know what can
and should happen in these pre kickoff
meetings with core teams, okay.
So this is a time to revisit project scope
to make sure that everybody's on the same
page about what's actually happening.
To begin what we call
the documentation dump and
to review stakeholder participants.
So we as content strategists, when we
do projects that are really focused on
the content, there are typically
a number of documents and
artifacts that have an impact on our
ultimate content recommendations.
And these can be design artifacts,
they can be development,
they can be related to
the content management system,
they can be company strategy, they can
be marketing and brand guidelines.
They can be organizational charts.
There are always,
they can be existing content artifacts and
whether if everything from brochures to
video to interactive timelines, right?
All that stuff we need to look at and
sort of categorize,
because in our situation analysis,
we're not just gonna report back on
here is the stuff that you gave us.
But we're gonna try to work to identify,
okay, what pieces of information
are important as we start to shape
our decisions around content, okay?
So that's where that starts.
So when we revisit project scope, we wanna
know what the informing goals are and
what strategy was in place that
initiated the project itself.
What is the driving force behind this?
What are our project objectives?
What should this project
accomplish when it's done?
What's our timeframe?
What's our budget and
what are any known risks and assumptions?
So for an example a known risk that
we often have are constraints,
resource constraints.
And that if we are working with
these resource constraints and
you want it done in 8 weeks but
it's gonna take 12.
Okay, and oftentimes you're like we'll
figure it out and get it done in eight.
Great, you can have it fast,
cheap, or good.
Pick two, [LAUGH], right?
So this is all stuff that's good to
know as you're launching a project.
Here are, I kind of went through this.
These are some examples of
the documentation dump that you might
find useful.
I think that no matter what
your role on a project is,
the more context you have about decisions
that are being made, the better.
The more informed your choices can be.
Oops.
So this is another thing is
understanding stakeholder participants.
So understanding who is
whom within your project.
I don't know if it happens sometimes that
you're working with even sometimes when
you're working on a small team that you're
not quite sure who's responsible for what.
Who needs to be consulted before
a decision is made versus just who
needs to be kept informed of decisions?
This is on project I will say in
projects within my own organization.
I try to take the role of someone
that just needs to be informed, but
there's sort of specific trigger
things that I need to be consulted on
that I need to kind of give my okay to.
So in this instance with roles too,
we have your owner, we've got the person
who's making final decisions.
Usually up above, there's somebody who
said, yes, I support this project.
Maybe I have given money for this project,
and I'm going to champion this
project among leadership.
People who influence outcomes and
then the derailer, and
I know you all are familiar
with the project derailer.
This is the person who maybe swoops
in halfway through the project and
says, that's not quite
what I was thinking.
Or didn't I tell you we're launching
a massive rebranding campaign,
or by the way,
we're switching our CMS in six months.
And so all the work that you're doing
to organize whatever on SharePoint for
example, that taxonomies not
gonna be supported on the new CMS
that we have in or we've got to roll it
into a corporate taxonomy or whatever.
So those are project derailers,
we wanna identify them.
And then we have the people who
are kind of leading strategy, whoever
the experts are subject matter experts
are who are gonna have an influence on
the actual substantive content or
functions within the application.
Who's actually doing the work,
the implementer to build the thing, and
launch it and then user proxy,
which are the people that we're in touch
with to understand about user needs and
expectations.
How many of you guys have actual
access to user research or
usability in your day to day work?
Boy.
>> What type of things would fall under
that with a reason your research would you
usually expect?
>> Well,
I think that the most straightforward and
easy one are just usability testing.
Where it's like treejack testing online or
just being able to watch somebody
use the thing that you are building.
Even just walking over to somebody in
marketing or in accounting or whatever and
saying, can you give me ten minutes
I want you to try to find x, y or z.
Or I want you to walk through
the sign up process or
I want you to try checking out
on this thing or whatever.
That's usability testing.
And that is giving you
insight into whether or
not what you're making makes any sense or
is doing what it's supposed to do.
There are a million different
ways to talk to your users.
I find that an easy shortcut in terms
of just being able to identify and
prioritize.
What people want is to talk to somebody in
sales or support and kind of hear what is
it that you're hearing over and over from
our end customers from either potential or
current customers that they're wanting or
that they're lacking?
Yeah.
>> Internally,
we use intercom or intercom.
>> Sure.
>> So we can have these two way
conversations with our customers within
the website, within the native apps,
within our support email, and
it's all in one central hub Facebook.
And you can just basically
look through support and
see all the different conversations and
kind of pick out here the common themes
and put it into buckets and say, okay,
here are the top issues that kind of
feeds into our quarterly roadmap or
our actual roadmap.
So we have thousands of two
way conversations with our
customers to inform.
We don't necessarily create
a roadmap based on that.
But we-
>> They inform.
>> Yeah, it helps us have a perspective
of the pain points of the customers.
>> That's great.
>> The common issues.
That sounds like a really useful tool.
>> Really?
>> Yeah.
>> It's like
basically how I built this business.
>> Yeah.
>> Is on the conversations
with the customer.
>> That's great.
>> Making sure that when you see a common
frustration it's like, all right,
[CROSSTALK] eventually you just
once you solve it, you don't get that
concern anymore, that question or
that, and then its customers happier and
your business grows.
>> Yeah.
Yeah, great.
Would you guys like to know what your
users think about what you're building?
[LAUGH] That'd be nice.
Yes, great, you can ask for that.
You can ask for it you can say,
this is like end user input is
what really is gonna inform
the success of our product long term.
We can't be making decisions just based
on our own assumptions forever, right?
No matter how well you know you
think you know your customer,
your user, think about how
your own digital usage habits
have changed over the last 18 months for
example, right.
>> And also Code 42 locally made
their developers even be in support.
I think it was for like-
>> So smart.
>> A month before they could write code.
They had to do support so
they could feel the pain of the customer.
And then once they got into developer
role, they can be like, okay,
now we can actually address these things.
>> That's so smart.
Yeah, so
working with project stakeholders is
a huge oppportunity and
pain point as I like to put it.
I don't know necessarily how much contact
you all have with larger project teams or
working teams day to day.
But these are as a content strategist,
these are things that I need to
understand and
know as I go through building anything.
So how often do people need updating?
At what point do we need their feedback,
especially if you are delivering content?
When you start to deliver content, who
needs to provide feedback on that content?
What kind of edits should we expect?
Do different people need
to know different things?
Do we need to communicate with people
differently like some people prefer email?
Some people prefer Slack.
Some people prefer just to be updated
in monthly meetings for example.
And are we able to provide updates
through existing forms of communication?